Load Runner:12.5 ver
automation tool for performance testing from HP. It is paid version and limted to
50 user.using c program language.

Components of load runner:
-virtual user generator(Vugen)
	> Recording
	> Actions
	> Parameterization
	> Checkpoints
	> Correlation
	> Debugging
- controller
	> Design Manual Scenario
	> Goal oriented scenario
	> Service level agreement
	> Load generator(Distributed generator)
	> Resource monitoring
- analysis
	> Design different types graph
	> generate report
	> Merge graph

Protocols that support load runner:
. http/html
. soap
. TrueClient(mobile)

Download link:http://www8.hp.com/us/en/software-solutions(load runner 12.5 community ed)

HP load runner:
by default recording is stored in actionand there are three components in action (vuser_init, action , vuser_end)
Load runner don't record each and every activity, it record only activity that takes b/w client machine and server machine
creates and manages virtual users.users are independent to one another.
performance measurements(through put, response time, concurrent vusers)
works with numerous protocol(better communication b/w client and server)
Protocol Advisor:
gives the advice of what type of protocols are used in the application.
Running script in Loop:
script in vugen and then execute it in loop multiple times.
Actions:
with the help of action we divide our script into multiple sections, group of related steps, quite similar to functions in otherlanguages,
bring modularity and reusability 
3 default actions:
vuser_init: used to initialization, can be executed only once
action: used to enter recorded script can be executed as many times as we want.
Vuser_end: used to terminate, execute only once
Transaction:
		it is used to find time taken by a step or no. of steps to execute, in LR we used transaction to find out time taken 
	by server to response a particular request. 
		we must end every started transaction
		transaction pts. can be added during or after recording
		transaction must be start and end in same action, cannot be overlapped in multiple action.
		lr_start_transaction("hello"); lr_end_transaction("hello", LR_AUTO);
Rendezvous point:
		when we want multiple user to run same task simultaneously we go for renezvous pt.
	in VUgen we can't implement multiple users it can done only in controller. In action we add rendezvous pt. but use in controller.

Controller:
	used to create and manage scenario. it executes senario and distribute load on diff. machine.
	we can monitor performance of server while execution of scenario.
Scenario:
	sequence of events which emulates actions performed by real users to perform any business process.
	scenario will include:
		Vuser scripts that we need to run in scenario
		load generator machine, machine on which script will execute and apply load on server.
		no. of Vusers, in form of group.
2 modes of scenario : virtual user group and other percentage mode
Loadrunner provides two types of check points
	a) Image Checkpoints : This checkpoint will verify the presence of an image on a page during run-time
	b) Text Checkpoint : This checkpoint will verify the presence of a text-string on a page during run-time
	Both of the above checkpoints can be added in Vugen.
Correlation:
	Correlation is used to obtain data which is unique for each run of your test script (ex: session ids). 
While recording, these dynamic values are hard-coded in your script causing the script to fail during playback. 
Correlation is a technique where dynamic values are not hard-coded in your script but are extracted at run-time 
to avoid failure.
18) What is Manual Correlation?
Its correlation technique which uses function Web_reg_save_param() to identify dynamic values in your script. 
It is important that your playback your script to verify that correlation is done successfully.

Relationship between Response Time and Throughput:
	The Throughput shows the amount of data in bytes that the Vusers received from the server in a second. 
When It is compared with transaction response time, throughput and response time get decreased.
	The peak throughput and highest response time would occur approximately at the same time.

vuser_init and vuser_end action contain:
	Vuser_init action contains procedures to login to a server and Vuser_end section contains log off procedures.

difference between standard log and extended log:
	The standard log sends a subset of functions and messages to the output log and subset of functions depends
on the Vuser type.
	Extended log sends a detailed script execution messages to the output log. It is mainly used during 
debugging when user needs information about Parameter substitution.

advantages of Load Runner:
	Reduces human intervention
	Reduces the requirement of the systems
	Helps in the better usage of time and money
	Effective utilization of automation
	Single point execution