Splunk:
useful CLI command:
$ splunk stop
$ splunk restart
$ splunk status
The Splunk Web interface is at http://localhost:8000
username: admin
password: changeme

Splunk is a powerful platform for searching, analyzing, monitoring, visualizing and reporting of your enterprise data. 
It acquires important machine data and then converts it into powerful operational intelligence by giving real time insight
to your data using alerts, dashboards and charts etc.Get a clear understanding of Splunk by going through this insightful
Infographic now.
working of Splunk:
	Splunk works into three phases-
		• In the first phase, it gathers data to solve your query from many sources as required.
		• Secondly, it converts that data into results that can solve your query.
		• Third, it displays the information/answers via a chart, report or graph, which is understood by large audiences.
Splunk has four important components:
	• Indexer – It indexes the machine data
	• Forwarder – Refers to Splunk instances that forward data to the remote indexers
	• Search Head – Provides GUI for searching
	• Deployment Server –Manages the Splunk components like indexer, forwarder, and search head in computing environment.
alerts in Splunk:
	An alert is an action that a saved search triggers on regular intervals set over a time range, based on the results 
	of the search. When the alerts are triggered, various actions occur consequently.. For instance, sending an email when
	a search to the predefined list of people is triggered.
Three types of alerts:
1. Pre-result alerts: Most commonly used alert type and runs in real-time for an all- time span. These alerts are
 designed such that whenever a search returns a result, they are triggered.
2. Scheduled alerts: The second most common- scheduled results are set up to evaluate the results of a historical
 search result running over a set time range on a regular schedule. You can define a time range, schedule and 
 the trigger condition to an alert.
3. Rolling-window alerts: These are the hybrid of pre-result and scheduled alerts. Similar to the former, these 
are based on real-time search but do not trigger each time the search returns a matching result . 
It examines all events in real-time mapping within the rolling window and triggers the time that specific 
condition by that event in the window is met, like the scheduled alert is triggered on a scheduled search.		